So we spent quite some time here on the sign up process but therefore we already got a nice error handling
step here in place and which is not too bad
but now it's of course also time to sign users in and not just up
and of course our UI doesn't change on whether the user sign up or in at the moment,
that's also something we'll take care about
but first of all, let's make sure we can send a request to login endpoint as well. For that in the
auth service,
let's start by adding a new login method and login also takes an e-mail and also takes a password
which should also be a string
unsurprisingly and in login,
we still have to send a request,
let's check out which URL we should send it to, here in the Firebase Auth REST API,
if we want to sign in.
This is the request,
the URL we should send a request to, it should be a POST request
as you can tell and therefore in the logging method, in the auth service, let's use the Angular HttpClient
and send a post request to that URL.
Now again, that API key needs to be replaced and therefore obviously, we use the same API key as up there
for signing up,
let's grab that and replace it down there, including the square brackets, just like this and this login
request also takes an e-mail, a password and this return secure token key as a request body and that
of course is the exact same body as we have here for signing up, so I can just copy and paste it from
there,
just like that. This will now send such a HTTP request, let's see which data we get back. For that
in the official docs, we see we get almost the same response as we got it for signing up but there
is one extra field, the registered field which is a boolean and therefore to able to use that same auth
response data interface, I'll add registered here but add a question mark to indicate that this is optional
and a boolean because the sign up requests will actually not yield it but the login request will
yield it.
So now here on logging in, I will also add the angled brackets after post and inform TypeScript about
the request response data we'll get back, that this is of type auth response data. Now just as for signing
up, I want to return this observable so that we only prepare it here but we can then subscribe in our auth
component and therefore now in the auth component, here, we have our logic for sending that sign up request.
In the isLogin mode, we therefore now can reach out to auth service login and also forward
e-mail and password here and then we have pretty much the same logic as down there.
So I can grab this subscribe
block here and also use it up here because in the end, I want to control my loading state and the error
and since it is the same subscribe block, of course we can write this a bit differently and not repeat ourselves
here, we can simply create a new variable, authObs for auth observable which will in the end be of type observable,
a type you need to import from RxJS and that observable is a generic type which means we also have
to identify which kind of data this will yield eventually
and that data will of course be our auth response data
and therefore now, we actually need to export this auth response data interface, so that we can import
it into the auth component and be really clear that this auth response data will be yielded here by that
auth observable
and for that, you of course also need to import auth response data from the auth service file. Now,
why do I create that auth observable variable here though?
The idea is that we simply change the observable this variable holds in our two branches of this if check
here
but at the end after this if check, at least one of the two observables will be stored in there or
exactly one of the two
but we know that there will be an observable stored in that variable and therefore we can then just
subscribe on that observable here after this if block, like this and only change what's in the observable
inside of the if block.
So for example, here for logging in, we could set authObs equal to this auth service login without calling
subscribe here and for signing up, we set authObs equal to this auth service sign up without subscribing
here, we can get rid of that code here because the subscription code now lives below the
if else statement because we know that after the if else statement, at least one of the two observables
or exactly one of the two but certainly one of the two will be stored in authObs and therefore subscribing
to it is safe
and then since we want to do the exact same things upon subscribing, control the loading state and set
the error, we can share the code and reduce the code we write here.
So now, we should also have our login route in place,
let's give it a try.
So here for the user which I already created, let me enter the credentials and click login and this
response looks quite good.
Now let's try a user
we haven't created yet, test 2 and now I get object object here as as an error.
Now that doesn't look too helpful, so we certainly need to work on the error handling logic
but besides that it's working,
so let's now take care about the error handling logic.